---
layout: post
title:  "My top 5 films of 2012"
date:   2013-01-20
categories: films
---

<p>So I've been thinking carefully about my five favourite films of 2012, turns out this isn't necessarily an easy list to make, there were a lot of truly awesome films released last year. Before I get onto the top five I've got a couple of quick honourable mentions, which came close but just missed out. </p>

<p><strong>The Avengers:</strong> it was fantastic and I had a lot of fun watching it but for me it just didn't stand out enough against the other films I watched.</p>

<p><strong>Prometheus:</strong> right I can hear people screaming at me for putting this here and I will fully acknowledge it has some rather large plot holes! However I did really enjoy it and I do look forward to any potential sequels.</p>

<p><strong>Brave:</strong> I'm a huge fan of the Pixar films and I found Brave to be a nice change from their usual films, with an outstanding voice cast.</p>

<p>So those were my three honourable mentions, now its time to move onto my top five films of 2012.</p>

<p><strong>5. The Hobbit: An unexpected journey</strong></p>

<p>So if I'm honest I wasn't exactly sure about the Hobbit,  I thought making it two films was a bit of a stretch so when they announced it was going to be three films I was concerned. I was worried that this was purely being done to make money (which I fully acknowledge is the point of any film). It turns out I needn't have worried, it was an amazing film to watch. I know some people have expressed concern over the length but the thing is at no point did I feel it was dragging, in fact I was disappointed when it was over. </p>

<p>The cast was fantastic, which was always a concern of mine especially considering the large ensemble they would require in order to bring the dwarves to life. However every member of the cast complements one another brilliantly and particular acknowledgement should be given to Freeman as Bilbo and Armitage as Thorin both of whom in my opinion stole the show. It was great to see old faces from The Lord of the Rings appear (even the ones that don't actually appear in the book) and it was obvious to me that Jackson had treated the source material with a great deal of respect.</p>

<p>I look forward to the blu ray release however I will be waiting for the already announced extended version, which I'm hoping will be out in time for the next instalments in the cinema at Christmas.</p>

<p><strong>4. Skyfall</strong></p>

<p>If you read my review of Skyfall you will know how much I enjoyed it and as a result won't spend ages going back over everything you can check out my thoughts [here] (http://dalemmanning.wordpress.com/2012/10/29/skyfall/ "Skyfall Review").</p>

<p>I will say however why it reached my top five, this was a Bond film that in my opinion reflected really the world as we know it. A world where we are starting to question just how far will we go to protect ourselves and asking just how much do we need people like Bond in order to do it.</p>

<p><strong>3. Looper</strong></p>

<p>Looper was a pleasant surprise for me, a film I went and saw last minute with some friends and a film which blew me away. This was an intelligent sci-fi film, one which I'm pretty sure I'm going to have to watch multiple times to truly appreciate.</p>

<p>The story line had me hooked from the start and revolves around how in the year 2074 when the mob wants to get rid of someone they send them back 30 years into the past to be disposed of by 'Loopers'. Unfortunately to say any more would spoil it for anyone who hasn't seen it and trust me this is a film best experienced with no previous knowledge.</p>

<p>Joseph Gordon-Levitt is exceptional and plays off against the older Bruce Willis extremely well. He also proves one is quickly becoming so popular in Hollywood. It's also nice to Willis playing a role he is clearly enjoying, as opposed to some of his more recent roles (yes I'm looking at you Cop-Out!).</p>

<p>Looper is out on DVD/Blu-ray in the next few weeks in the UK and I thoroughly recommend giving it a go.</p>

<p><strong>2. Dredd 3D</strong></p>

<p>Possibly a surprising choice but this really was one of the highlights of 2012 for me and in fact came pretty close to taking the top spot.</p>

<p>I'm a fan of the comic and I've been working my way through the complete case files, to me this film is an accurate portrayal of the character and does a far better job than the Stallone film ever did (don't get me wrong it was still a fun film). I loved the fact that at no point does Dredd remove his helmet and that he is just as ruthless as he is in the comics.</p>

<p>Full credit should be given to Karl Urban for managing to portray a character who doesn't remove his helmet so convincingly. His interaction with Olivia Thirlby who plays rookie judge Anderson is extremely strong and helps make the movie such a success.</p>

<p>I'll be writing up a full review of the blu-ray soon, but for now let me just say that Dredd is highly recommended.</p>

<p><strong>1. The Dark Knight Rises</strong></p>

<p>So my number one film of the year is the stunning end to the Dark Knight trilogy - The Dark Knight Rises.</p>

<p>As far as I'm concerned Nolan has treated the character of Batman with a great deal of respect which was sorely needed after the mess that was Batman and Robin. The Dark Knight Rises is a fitting end to the journey which we started back in 2005. Drawing elements from the Knightfall and No Mans Land story lines, it is a thoroughly entertaining film which sees Batman facing one of his greatest enemies.</p>

<p>It contains some brilliant nods to fans of the comic (I dare you not to shout out loud when Gordon-Levitt reveals who he is at the end of the movie) and I loved every minute of it.</p>

<p>As with Dredd I'll be writing up a review of the blu-ray soon but if you haven't seen it yet, I have just one question - what exactly are you waiting for?</p>
