---
layout: post
title: Reflections July 2014
date: 2014-07-27 14:00:00
category: general
---

Well here we go, we have reached the end of the school year and I'm once again finding myself wondering where the time has gone. To say that it has been a truly insane year would be somewhat of an understatement and I wanted to take the time to reflect on some of what has happened. 

The first challenge of the year was undergoing my assessment only qualification period, 10 weeks which saw me very quickly learning to adapt to the new teaching standards, weekly lesson observations and the constant push towards reaching the outstanding outcome. It was an interesting time for me, I have always struggled with the 'outstanding teacher' label; don't get me wrong I have always pushed myself towards being an outstanding teacher after all my students deserve nothing less from me. But I have also felt that being called outstanding would imply there is nothing you can do to improve (*I fully accept this may just be me overthinking it*). Surely if you aren't striving to improve at all times, you aren't doing the best for their students; it was a conversation I had frequently with my university tutor, who I'm pretty sure must have felt I was nuts. 

I learnt a lot in those 10 weeks, in particular I realised there is nothing wrong with trying something new and different. It may not always go according to plan but when it does .... it can lead to some of the best lessons you have ever delivered. I can safely say that teaching citizenship to year 7 students helped with this realisation. Their ability to think outside of the normal constraints of the classroom is amazing. Ask them a single question and they will just run with it, ending up in places that I didn't even think of and asking questions you couldn't have planned for. Trust me when I say that if you want to practice at dealing with the unexpected in the classroom, teach year 7 citizenship!

I'd be lying if I said I didn't find it hard work, but luckily I had two great people backing me throughout the process. I am extremely grateful for the guidance I received from my curriculum leader and professional tutor. They both encouraged me to run with my own ideas, think outside the box all the while continuing to show unbridled faith in me. Coming out of that 10 week period sane was largely down to them (*although they claim otherwise!*) and I was officially handed my completion form on 22nd October.

I'll be honest I was looking forward to just being able to focus on teaching during my NQT year, however things changed pretty quickly. It turns out that if you complete an assessment only qualification route, your NQT year becomes an NQT term! Luckily it was a relatively straight forward period for me and just after the easter break I received confirmation that I was a fully qualified teacher. In just over a year I had completed my degree and completed my teacher training, I still can't believe just how much has happened in such a short period of time. I still catch myself double checking that I have actually completed everything!

Just after this, I was caught surprise by another opportunity which presented itself. My curriculum leader had been appointed the new head of 6th form starting in September, a job which he will be truly awesome at and the 6th formers are going to be extremely lucky to have him in the role. This of course left the curriculum leader position for Media Studies open and I soon found myself in conversation with our head teacher about whether I was interested in the job. 

I wasn't completely sure about saying yes, after all I had only just completed my qualification and I hadn't planned on this happening for a few more years yet. After a lot of thought and uncertainty, I made the decision to apply for the position. Ultimately the realisation that I would regret not going for it and that someone else could end up running the department that myself and my CL had worked so hard to build was enough to sway me. After going through the interview process I was offered the job and I began the process of getting ready to run a department. 

In just a few short weeks, my students collect their GCSE and A-Level results. With all of the recent changes in the education system and this constant comment that exams are getting easier, it is always a stressful time of year for staff and students alike. Whatever the results, I am extremely proud of the work they have created. Without a doubt we have had some extremely talented students with us this year and the coursework they have produced reflects this.

The new school year is going to be an interesting one. While I know I still have a lot to learn, I'm looking forward to the new challenges that I will face as a curriculum leader; but first I'm going to take a few weeks off and catch up on some much needed sleep.

Have a good summer everyone!





